well let's take you now to some of the
latest pictures that we're getting from
the Gaza Strip This is the northern part
of the Gaza Strip in an
area which is believed to be near the
Indonesian hospital or or in the
hospital there's been shelling very very
nearby now we heard from the Gaza Health
Ministry um just a few hours back that
the Indonesian hospital was running so
low on fuel that it was going to go
entirely it was going to have to close
all operations within 24 hours we we
know the lights have gone out there
before um and they managed to to get
them turned back on several weeks back
but they've been running with with very
few suppliers for for days and days now
you're watching injured people being
moved around after this shelling that's
taken place very close to that area we
know this is this is all in Northern
Gaza this is all in a part of the Gaza
Strip which the Israeli military has
asked people to leave from but obviously
Hospital staff have said that they need
to stay on to to do what they can to to
help their communities and treat the
wounded a lot of these hospitals in
these areas have also become shelters
for so many people who've been displaced
families who've lost their homes these
have become some of the only places that
people have felt were vaguely safe at
all so tens of thousands of people have
been Sheltering in these areas they're
run very low on everything and just to
remind you what I was saying before the
Gaza Health Ministry says this hospital
will have to shut down entirely within
24 hours if it receives no more fuel and
now just hours later we are getting
reports of shelling very close to that
medical facility that off the back of
multiple hospitals being forced to shut
down and multiple hospitals being
damaged in air
strikes
well if you're just joining us now on
the NewsHour on Al jazer let me remind
you what you're watching this is the
aftermath very latest pictures so
pictures just in the last few minutes
coming in of the aftermath of shelling
so we're watching injured people now
being moved around shelling has been
taking place near the Indonesian
Hospital in Northern
Gaza and um we also know that this
hospital is also running very low on
everything including fuel we do expect
that that will have to shut down within
the next 24 hours that's according to
the Gaza Health Ministry now just to
recap what we've seen over the last 24
hours or so more than half of the
hospitals in Gaza have already been
forced to shut down we've heard that the
alasa Children's Hospital in a different
part of the Gaza Strip has also now been
forced to shut down because it's it's
sustained so much
damage so let's now bring in Abdul Hamed
CM who I was just discussing all of this
with the dire humanitarian situation
that the Gaza Strip finds itself in now
Abdul Hamed I imagine this is coming as
no surprise to you based on what we were
just discussing a few minutes AG no I
think Israel will es escalate in the
next few days so much because they might
come up to the point that they have to
stop the war or at least a kind of truce
for few days be imposed on them the
there is a am mounting pressure on
Israel and the United States to do that
so they want to do as much as damage to
the Palestinians the the society at
large both both in Gaza and the West
Bank before that moment comes I think
there will be we will see more massacres
this kind what happened today to the
Children Hospital mhm do you think that
particularly now what we're seeing up in
in the north is this part of a um a kind
of strategy to try to clear out the
north obviously we've seen people tens
of thousands of people moving south
there's this idea now that there will be
these pauses specifically to evacuate
the north that that's what Israel and
the US are saying to to get people out
is that the whole idea bomb the north
get people to leave and and then and
then have no one left but they've been
bombing the North and the South there is
no safe place as we said in Gaza the
people who are moving from uh from south
to North or from north to south they've
been bombed while they are walking the
road the even the uh the ambulances
which were taking injured people on the
coastal Road also moving from north to
south South they're being bombed and
they were killed so there is no safe
place people don't agree don't believe
that moving from one place to the other
that makes them safer that is across the
board in Gaza there is no safe place in
Gaza now they're trying to impose to
impose or inflict so much damage on the
Palestinian as a whole they want them to
raise the White Flag as I said and I
don't think they will do the Palestinian
will never uh do that AB Hamid let me
ask you because you yourself used to
work for the United Nations where is the
UN and all of this I mean ju just a few
days ago I was speaking to the director
the Gaza director of unra the UN Agency
for Palestine refugees who was saying
that they could no longer offer
protection under the UN flag so what is
the un's role now I mean presumably if
if there are supposed to be humanitarian
corridors broad evacuations and now
these pauses with tens of thousands of
people on the road is the UN supposed to
play a part the humanitarian agencies
are trying I mean they've been raising
their voices I mean they attended every
conference I mean the high the general
Commissioner of Ona or the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees went in himself to
Gaza and he visited some of those uh
shelters they're trying but that is not
the issue the issue is the with
political organ of the United Nations
that the one which take decision it's
the security Council it has been
paralyzed because of the United States
they don't want to ra the idea of a Seas
fire which is other countries are
calling for and so far they veted two
draft resolution and there is another
one is floating it's going nowhere
because of the US insisting on no
ceasefire that is the issue and also
they want in any draft resolution to
impose another uh agenda item which
right of Israel to defend itself now
people don't believe that is the right
to defend itself to kill 10,000
civilians or to kill children or to
Target hospitals or to Target uh schools
that is not called self-defense it
is frankly it is war crimes it is
collective punishment it is violation of
international humanitarian uh
law I want to ask you about some of the
the terms that are being thrown around
here ceasefire humanitarian pores
tactical pores everyone has has a
different take on it but they all really
do mean different things what we're
hearing about right now is is a pause so
a daily 4our Pause by my understanding
this is just in Northern Gaza in order
to allow or or encourage people to leave
but as you were just saying there are
obviously bombardments continuing in the
South that's what's also holding up Aid
deliveries so just to be clear this is
not the humanitarian pause or anything
like a ceasefire that various different
nations and various different agencies
have been pushing for every agency now
every humanitarian agen the human rights
groups uh the Paris conference is
calling for ceasefire quality
humanitarian or not but that is
ceasefire that means guns has to be
silenced poses is not like that you
could have a pose in one area and you
continue the fighting in another so you
could have a pose in the northern part
of Gaza yet you are fighting in the
South or the other way around so poses
is different than ceasefire what is the
UN calling what is the secretary
General's calling what even president
mcro today in his speech called for
ceasefire ceasefire means there is no
fire shot during this period so that is
what Gaza is needed so they allow
humanitarian it to come in big large
volume and allow foreigners to leave and
maybe some also hostages as we can see
now there's the negotiations going so
far to a final stage to allow some
hostages to be
released we're watching these pictures
and I I want to draw our viewers
attention to to the huge huge explosions
we've been seeing there they've just
been in the the top right of the screen
now these are the latest pictures from
the vicinity around the Indonesian
hospital where we've learned that that
massive shelling has been taking place
and and Abid you and I were just talking
earlier about intentionality and
strategy here by the Israelis very
interesting to see what their their
their intentionality is now in doing
this very very close to one of the OWN
remaining health facilities in that area
that are still functioning and may only
continue to do so for the next few hours
ABD thank you for joining me again well
let's now speak to our correspondent on
the ground TK Abu aom he's joining us
again from KH yunes that's in the south
of the Gaza Strip uh Tark can you bring
us up to date about what you're hearing
obviously we've we've seen very very
heavy shelling in the north we know
there's been this attack on Al NASA
Children's Hospital are we seeing an
intensified bombardment just in the last
half hour or
so yes during the last 10 uh minutes uh
the Israeli massive bombardment has
spiked in particular in the north of the
Gaza Strip uh the attacks were very
closed and around the vicinity of the
Indonesian Hospital people who were
residing in the yards of the hospital
start to rush into uh the inside of the
hospital to be protected from the
Israeli Relentless bombardment uh this
amount of air strikes is are unprecedent
Ed during to the previous kind of
targeting to the vicinity of the
Indonesian Hospital also the attacks
continued around the vicinity of the Sha
hospital it seems that the main
concentration during the last uh half
hour uh were generally on the vicinity
of Gaza main Central hospitals as they
had previously today attacked the anas
the anaser hospital which considered to
be the main Central Hospital that
provide medical care for young babies
and youly poor
kids T we've been hearing of obviously
about about all of these bombs but we
also know that as a result not only of
the bombardment but also of the seege
that so many Health Facilities have had
to shut down what is the state of
affairs in Northern Gaza at the moment
who's still functioning is there
anywhere that anyone can go for for
medical
attention now with the ongoing uh
Relentless bombardment by the Israeli
occupation Air Forces which uh is are
combined by uh the ongoing uh fuel
crisis with the shortage of food and
even with the destruction of bakeries
and main water sources the situation
there is unparal people there are really
are no longer be able to C with the
situation on the ground in the north of
the Gaza Strip uh literally the
bombardment is in every single corner of
the north of Gaza Strip people were
evacuating to the southern areas on
their foot and order to run away from
that Hill that is taking place in the
north of the Gaza Strip we are talking
about hundreds of a strikes every night
taking the lives of hundreds of
Palestinians as well uh the hospitals
there are witnessing massive
deteriorations in terms of the medical
uh conditions uh they are uh very
running running low in terms of medical
supplies as there is no any humanitarian
Aid had been delivered to the north of
the Gaza Strip and also these hospitals
are overwhelmed and uh flooded with
patients and even displaced people who
are try to shelter inside these
hospitals to be away from the Relentless
bombardment now with the these ongoing
air strikes in the vicinity of the
Indonesian Hospital in the north of the
Gaza Strip the Israeli occupation forces
are trying to force citizens to leave
the hospital and to evacuate to the
southern areas of the Gaza Strip thus
they have a clear flexibility in terms
of carrying out and to expand more
military operations on the ground TK Abu
aom there with the latest for us a live
report from Kan yunes in the southern
Gaza Strip thank you TK